the banks are in denial are you in
today's video we're going to look at the
crisis that the banks are experiencing
what that means for you the individual
and of course the Federal Reserve I have
got a lot of information to share let's
begin you came here for the truth so let
me unveil that for you you've got to
know what's going on with the banks and
that will give you insight as to what's
happening inside of the economy you
might say no it's got nothing to do with
me but I'm going to tell you why that is
the case it gives us information if we
look at the banks and what they're
saying about what's going on at the
deeper level one level below what we
would normally see out there and I'll
explain why first things first let's
talk about the banks back in March of
course we started to see the exposure of
the failures a year after the Federal
Reserve started to increase interest
rates yeah stuff started to come up that
started to surface here we have it
higher interest rates are making their
loans more profitable and consumers and
the economy remain surprisingly strong
even in the face of the fed's rate
increases that's what they're saying
right okay let's take that but more
loans are going bad after what had been
record low
losses by the way a lot of that has to
do with keeping interest rates at 0% for
so long and then of course 2020 hit then
you got the moratoriums nobody had to
pay their student debt and all these
things right American consumers are
starting to deplete coffers of extra
cash they built up during 2020 fighting
in the Middle East and the continuing
war in Ukraine and Rising government
deficits are adding to the uncertainty
and of course more has happened since
then this may be the most dangerous time
the world has seen in decades this is
coming directly from the man himself
jimie demon okay and so we get that
information and we have to take it and
and understand what's going on the banks
are just one aspect of this that's what
want to focus on here but know that
there are a lot of moving Parts in any
Financial system in any economy and so
we look at that and have to start to ask
the question of where does this all end
and I'm going to bring that to you here
today a year and a half later Banks
can't believe that rates have risen
still I'm still seeing them they're in
disbelief like uh no they won't increase
interest rates like come on get with the
program wake up they've already done it
done it many times all right profit is
impacted as you see this right here
specifically with the banks but when you
increase those interest rates it's going
to have an effect on them especially
when they're not used to it okay job
losses could result as you know when you
have problems with the banks they could
basically just say we have had uh the
you know a profit loss and as a result
we are going to start laying people off
that's the easiest way that we know how
to increase profitability that's what
they do they're saying their profits are
okay but there's different reasons for
that US Government now has a crisis on
hand can you guess why that's the case
interest rates have risen considerably
and if you look at the video just prior
to this one you are going to see a full
explanation into that where we have a
problem big problem the Federal Reserve
is going to have to come in and buy up
trillions of dollars in bonds and what
do you think happens when you buy up
print all this money you got a more you
got a scenario where there's more
inflation and that's what I see here
right now today it's on our doorstep and
this goes for every country they're all
doing the same thing but let's keep our
Focus right here right now higher rates
have Bank stocks on the mat the KBW
NASDAQ Bank index is trailing the
broader Market by 37 percentage points
this year now this article was um from
days ago but I just wanted to show it to
you because it just gives you an idea of
what's Happening you could see in this
case they're showing you the index
performance S&P 500 that's the Blue Line
it has done well over this period but
you compare that to the red which is the
NASDAQ Bank index and obviously a big
issue March is slumped down hasn't
recovered why it's because they know
there's a problem and I've talked about
this at length deposits at US Banks have
stabilized easing fears that more Banks
could go under but the efforts of higher
effect of higher interest rates has put
the sector's earning power under a cloud
no question no doubt svb was a bolt of
lightning but this has been a slow
rolling storm that can weigh on
profitability in a very material way I
mean they're already going through that
we know this to be the case higher
yields have forced Banks to pay out more
interest on deposits and other funding
sources meanwhile returns from lending
at higher rates have been slower to
catch up the economy has stayed strong
but higher interest rates are making it
harder for consumers to afford the loans
for big tickets purchases such as houses
and cars okay do you see what's
happening here if you have higher
interest rates well then you are a bank
you're getting these deposits and
remember for the longest time deposits
would get nothing you put a deposit in
there you get zero you get zil you get
nauy you get nothing all right no soup
for you you get
nothing and people were just say well
okay well the money's in the bank I mean
what can I do that you know maybe I'll
just I'll have to invest in stocks I'll
have to invest in cryptocurrencies
whatever I want yield I want a return on
my money
and now things have changed because
there's a lot of other opportunities
that are considered to be guaranteed or
safe and so you could invest in you know
your government bonds you could invest
in your money market funds you could
invest in some sort of like CD or GIC
depending on which country you're from
and you can look at these guaranteed
Investments and understand that they're
attractive compared to the alternative
of keeping in the bank and so these
banks are basically saying okay okay we
got to do something about that we got to
offer them a higher rate but where's
their profit coming from where like what
else well they're getting it from
mortgages if you're lending out because
at near 8% on a mortgage maybe even
higher depending on the risk depending
on the credit rating all that they're
going to make probably going to make a
good profit in between that right
they're making a few percent okay that's
some profit they can use that but it's
becoming very difficult and as their um
as they get depleted here with their
deposits it puts so much pressure on the
company as a whole that's their basis
their their deposits their investors
whatever that might be that's their
their bread and butter and now you're
fleeing out the door you've got a big
issue that just cannot be resolved so
these Banks can go under in a very rapid
period now I don't believe that you're
going to have these Mass Bank f failures
like some that you've May seen but know
that yes the banks can collapse this is
possible absolutely you might have Bank
big big banks that will will collapse
but they can simply be bought out by
another they extract this they lay off
half the workforce they combine with
another company look at what example we
had just this year credit s and
UBS one of the biggest companies in the
world world like so prominent all right
Swiss banks and know you know when you
think about Swiss banks and so you had
this big bank failure which by the way
they locked down the data made it secret
related to that bailout for 50 years
standard 30 years but they decided to
lock that down for an extra extra
20 you know something corrupt happened
there anyway so um that's an issue right
here where you've got these Banks
they're failing they you know merge them
what do they do the first thing they do
let's get rid of as many people as we
can and so that could start a Cascade
and that happens okay in in different
crises so let's pay attention to the
banks very closely the Q3 selloff in
rates could push Banks unrealized losses
back to their highs and so when I look
look at that the banks they obviously
have every reason to want lower rates
right now overall because it's just an
easier game for them um and it the the
change I think part of that is is the
change how we went from basically in a
year zero interest rates to reasonable
level of interest rates and that's too
fast for them to catch up you got
problems with bonds this is a serious
problem with the bond market this is the
Austria 100 year or Century Bond and its
value has plummeted absolutely plummeted
down to basically onethird of its value
and so a lot of the investment companies
imagine that these investment companies
Banks whatever they bought something at
$100 and now it's worth $33 they're
saying okay what do we do well we can
sell it we can get our $33 back or we
can wait we got got a lot of time to
wait it's a 100-year bond uh you know
what do we do so imagine they're holding
on to this asset the depositors are
leaving and they can't really you know
they only have so much Capital so let's
say they bought a billion dollars worth
of this garbage and they're trying to
say uh okay do we just sell it so that
we can you know do something else with
that money or do we hold it here it's
stuck here and we're taking losses on
this that's the big issue I hope I made
s clear let me know if I if I haven't
let me know in the comments okay um
right here Banks fail it's okay I
couldn't believe I was hearing this but
this is a former FDIC chair saying it
and it is okay if they fail that helps
they basically say that is what I quoted
in my first book the economic detox it's
a good thing it really
is in the second quarter the average
overall cost of deposits at US Banks was
1.
78% that was still
3.2% below the average fed funds rate at
nearly 5% the Gap hasn't been that wide
since the 1980s that alone suggests that
there is much more catching up to do and
so will deposits have to go to much
higher levels is that what we're saying
here if that's the case where are they
going to get the money from they need to
pay up are they going to go take losses
on all of that stuff that they were
holding on to this is a huge problem I
hope I I'm like stressing the point here
that banks are in big big trouble what
can you do about it well let's talk
about that right here and now make sure
you are earning interest I think it's a
very obvious thing but a lot of people
they're just like yeah whatever whatever
if you do not need that Capital right
now today you should be deploying that
somewhere short term okay you can get
into high yield savings account that you
can pull out basically at any time it's
fully liquid versus you know just in the
checking account if it's something as
simple as okay I can just move my money
from there to there why not earn
interest in it just just earn that get
it's better in your pocket than in
theirs take out and spread out any
uninsured deposits if you've got money
somewhere that isn't insured you better
be careful at least put it into the
insured places because that's you know
going to give you a little bit more
peace of mind they're likely more if
there is a failure and they're not going
to you know bail out the FDIC and the
FED are not going to bail out the
uninsured at least you know we don't
have to worry so much about the insured
at least for right now let's let's plan
it okay be mindful of your exposure to
the banks and lenders you got to know
this okay if you've got a lot of um
exposure that is that is a big concern
because we could absolutely have more
failures right here and now hope I made
myself clear all right if you want to
get your finances in order I have
partnered with this company called money
pickle and it's funny name but basically
you can get your scenario sorted out and
I'm going to show you right here this
the link in the description is the link
you click on you go over there it'll
send you to this page where I got like
the points and stuff short little video
and then you click on that link that
I've got when you go over to that link
you're going to see this and basically
it just says your free finan help desk
schedule your free video chat get match
based on your needs and so I spoke with
these guys I I was confident that
they're great a bunch of you have
already signed up let me know let me
know your feedback was it valuable in
that 45 minute chat that you had I'm I'm
really interested to know and of course
use the link in the description it
supports me and this channel so I do
appreciate that very much okay uh
comment of the day get ready for
crashing standards of living and I do
believe that is the case thank you very
much by the way for your comment as
always love your
comments if we know that the living
standards are going to decline and
inflation is likely to go up at some
point as the Federal Reserve comes in to
be the buyer of Last Resort what would
you do what should you do these are the
questions we should have as our North
Star and then we decide okay let's make
it happen let's let try our best if you
need information from me directly just
reach out I'm here I'm on Discord every
day at least once a day I go in there
try to you know get um communicating
with with everybody as much as I can
anyway comment section I'm always here
as well all right I'll see you on the
next one take care